>>DAVID WILCOCK: All right.
Welcome back to our show.
I'm here with Pete Peterson.
Pete, welcome back to the show.
>>PETE PETERSON: Thank you much.
>>DAVID: We've been talking
in the past about your work
with some luminaries.
So who do we have next
on the list as somebody
we might remember?
>> PETERSON: Probably someone
that I started with very young
also is Kenneth Shoulders.
>>DAVID: OK.
>> PETERSON: Gentlemen by the
name of Kenneth Shoulders.
He passed away recently
and left his whole legacy
on the internet.
So you can go to Google and
Google Kenneth Shoulders.
And you could spend two or
three lifetimes even beginning
to go through his stuff.
When I met him, he was
one of the people that was
presented to me as a mentor.
I flew down to
Southern California.
And he lived up in the
mountains above Stanford campus.
And there was a little area
up there where he got to--
he liked to tune himself.
So he'd go out
early in the morning
and walk through the fog
up on top of the hills,
and breathe the air, and smell
the seawater and the seaweed
on the other side
of the mountain,
and hug a tree or two, or lie
down by a tree and meditate,
and then he was ready to go
to his consummate, consummate
laboratory, which I've
tried to build one
like it the rest of my life
and I'm not even close.
But he had tools in there
that you've never heard of,
tools that had been used by the
Egyptians, tools that had been
used by people way back when.
If you think about the rate
of increase of knowledge,
we've always increased at the
same rate as our increased
tools to measure it.
We can talk about electricity.
They talked about electricity
for years and years
mathematically, but they had
nothing to demonstrate it.
We didn't have voltmeters, and
ammeters, and oscilloscopes.
And we didn't have capacitance
meters and inductance meters.
>>DAVID: Well, let me just ask
a kind of a direct question.
Are you saying that he had
either ancient technology
or classified
technology right there?
>> PETERSON: I used to talk
about him for many, many years.
There were certain
things I couldn't say.
But I used to talk about him.
I always said if
there's anybody that I
know of on this Earth
that's an alien,
it's got to be this guy, because
he was 50 to 200 years ahead
of anybody.
I remember when I was 14 he
sent me a handful of integrated
circuits.
And about 12 years later,
they were invented.
In the quality and the amount
of integration that took place,
it took about 14 years before
they got to be commercial.
>>DAVID: So what was the purpose
of them bringing him to you?
What did he teach you when
you started at six months?
>> PETERSON: He teaches me the
things that he knows that are
very different from the things
that are known out in public,
or very advanced from the things
that are not out in public.
>>DAVID: Could you
give us an example?
>> PETERSON: Well, when I
went into his laboratory,
the first thing he showed me was
a little thing that looked like
a silver grain of rice.
He took that thing
with a pair of tweezers
and put it into a
little plastic device
that snapped in that looked
like a regular maple seed
off a tree.
And then he took the device
and hit it on his hand.
And it turns out there was a
little piston inside this leaf
seed.
There was a little double
ended piston go back and forth.
And it was filled
with isobutane.
And it would generate--
it would generate air, it would
compress air, and shoot it
down the leaf of the maple
seed and out the side.
And it would sit, and hover,
and spin around and around
and around like that.
>>DAVID: And how big?
Show me with your hands
how big this thing was.
>> PETERSON: About this big.
The whole thing was about
that long and a little engine
about like that.
>>DAVID: Around
what time was this?
What year?
>> PETERSON: Oh boy.
Probably 19-- probably 66, 67.
>>DAVID: Well, we know now
that there are very small drone
technologies, but for
the mid to late 1960s--
>> PETERSON: I've never
seen anything like it.
>>DAVID: So this thing
could fly on its own?
I mean--
>> PETERSON: It
would fly on its own.
You could control
it with a little--
he'd converted a
very early-- we use
infrared to control our
television sets and VCRs.
There was a time when you used
a little ultrasonic tweeter.
It had a little bulb on the
end and a little whistle.
And they came out in the
public for, I don't know,
two or three years, and then
moved on to electronics.
And he had a little tweeter.
And he had one of
the little sensors
that I'd learned about from LAN.
They have-- the
Polaroid X series
cameras had a
ultrasonic range finder.
>>DAVID: So you're saying
that there's this--
that he had,
instead of infrared,
that he used an
ultrasonic noise generator
but you can't hear the noise?
>> PETERSON: It's ultrasonic
so it's above the frequency
of hearing.
And it's a little tweeter.
>>DAVID: So it was like a remote
control for the for the device.
>> PETERSON: It's
a remote control,
it's this ultrasonic
remote control tweeter.
And he could tweet this
thing to go away from you.
wherever it was,
it designed to hook
to the highest object near it.
So it would fly around you.
Now as you would see
it coming around,
you'd see something out
there you wanted to examine.
So when it got inline,
you'd tweet it.
It'd make a right angled turn
and then fly directly away
from you.
And so you could maybe
take it out 2, 300 feet.
And you can tweet it
twice and it'd turn right
and start circling around you.
And if it found
something taller,
it'd start circling around that.
>>DAVID: We routinely
hear insiders
say that the technology
in the classified world
is 20 to 50 years ahead of the
conventional world if not more.
This absolutely sounds
like that to me.
>> PETERSON: Oh,
it is like that.
I mean that's reality.
You discover something.
When you discover, a
scientist says, oh, I
found out that this can happen.
The time between that
actually happening and then
making something that has
the right power source,
has the right
components available,
then they're farmed out to a
number of agencies or companies
that build those things that
have no idea what they're
going into.
I want something that does this.
>>DAVID: That's just like
the Manhattan Project.
They were building
a nuclear bomb.
>> PETERSON: Almost like most
all the projects I've worked
on.
I could have upgraded
them probably
by 10 or 15 years if I'd had
three or four of the objects,
but they don't want you to
know what the objects are,
because they don't want you
to guess what they might be,
to sell it to the Soviets
for 10 times what
you're getting paid.
>>DAVID: So what did
this little thing do?
Why was it so useful?
I mean I have ideas--
>> PETERSON: It was so useful
because the whole idea of it
was eventually to make a maple
seed that would fly out across
the countryside, down
a chimney inside,
through a fireplace grate up,
and land on a wall or a shelf
and turn the microphone on.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: And you'd
never know it was there.
And then at times you
could turn it back on later
or have a maid or a housekeeper,
someone who is on the inside,
I think I always said, there
are more housekeepers in the CIA
than there are anything else.
They're in retrieving or putting
down devices of various kinds.
So they could retrieve it later
or maybe just self-destruct it
later.
Turn it on and fly it
down into the fireplace.
>>DAVID: So this would be an
incredible surveillance weapon.
>> PETERSON: Absolutely.
Then we made a larger one
that was about six feet long
that was made out of inflated--
at that time, those little
kiddie vinyl swimming pools
were becoming big time.
So we found a
couple of companies
that were run by former
military people and so forth.
And we could make this
wing that would roll up.
You'd fill the wing
up full of isobutane,
and then put a little engine
in the size of a marshmallow.
And a little free
piston compressor
the size of a marshmallow
put out about 17 horsepower.
>>DAVID: Wow.
So you say that this
thing had 17 horsepower?
That seems--
>> PETERSON: The little
marshmallow-sized engine.
>>DAVID: That seems
very hard to believe.
I'm sure some people are
going to stammer on that.
>> PETERSON: Well, they were
wonderful little things.
And what it would do is take
this wing-- this flying,
single wing--
fly it around in circles.
And we were at SRI.
We'd would look across.
And here's the
Stanford football team.
So we took it down with them.
And they made up a little game.
Remember, it's locking
onto the tallest person.
So one guy jumped on
the other's shoulders.
And they'd run past it.
And it would hook onto them.
And they'd head down
the field one way.
And then another team
would get some people
to run in front of them, and
do the same thing backwards.
And we got it where the
coach says, now, look,
I got a game in four days.
You're going to
destroy these guys.
[LAUGHTER]
And, no, no, we want
to play with this.
We don't want to
play football again.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: So anyway,
that was one thing.
And we attended that
for a civilian product.
But naturally, the people
says, no, no, that's
going to be a military product.
I don't know that it ever
became a military product.
I mean, that's
been 30 years ago.
>>DAVID: Well, something
like this theoretically
could also become a
smart bullet, right?
You could--
>> PETERSON: Smart
bullet, smart bomb.
We had little blades that were
like little samurai swords that
would fly across
the battlefield,
and sense a heartbeat, and
sense a body temperature,
and fly through it.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: And it was a blade
big enough to cut enough tissue
inside the body to bleed
it out in short order.
>>DAVID: That's very disturbing.
>> PETERSON: It is.
>>DAVID: Well, since we're
trying to get a lot into one
show here-- just to give
people an overview for you--
who else were you
trained by that we
might be able to look up
or verify in some way?
>> PETERSON: Well, I got some
training from a fellow that was
the father of
computerized sound.
There wasn't before him.
There was some but very little.
He wrote the manual on it.
His name was Hal Chamberlin.
The last I heard of Hal, he was
Kurzweil's head sound engineer.
And Kurzweil is the god
of robotics, if you would,
in the world today.
Last I heard he was
teaching at MIT.
And someone else
here mentioned he's,
I think, somewhere else
doing some work in that area.
>>DAVID: I think he
works for Google now.
>> PETERSON: Yeah,
he probably does.
And he's the one that
thinks we're all going
to move into bionic bodies.
>>DAVID: Kurzweil is
the guy who was talking
about AI and singularity.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>> PETERSON: Yeah.
>>DAVID: Yeah.
>> PETERSON: And he realizes
that we'll soon have--
because little chip that
I have and so forth.
He realizes that we'll soon
have artificial intellect that's
much greater than
the human capability.
>>DAVID: Right.
>> PETERSON: And so
he's working on that.
And I have no idea--
and I don't think anybody has
an idea-- of what he's really
working on behind the scenes.
But he's been funded, financed,
and cajoled, and everything
else by the very, very
high levels of government,
total secure operations.
>>DAVID: So tell me a little
more about Hal Chamberlin.
What did you study from him?
When did that take place?
What was his contribution?
>> PETERSON: It was in
the early '80s, '80, '81.
He and his partner had built--
in the beginning, I
was using a computer
that had been built
to teach people
how to use computers and chips.
There was nothing like it.
>>DAVID: And what year
are we talking about?
>> PETERSON: 1979 and '80.
>>DAVID: OK.
>> PETERSON: And there was
a little computer built it
eventually called the AIM-65.
>>DAVID: A-M 65?
>> PETERSON: A-I-M 65.
>>DAVID: A-I-M 65, OK.
>> PETERSON: It was
just a circuit board.
It had another
little circuit board
that had what we call
today a standard computer
keyboard hooked to it.
It was the first computer that
ever had a microprocessor chip
and a keyboard hooked together.
And that's how long ago it was.
It had a little
thermal printer that
would print on thermal paper
out of an Olivetti calculator
that Sears and Roebuck sold.
And it had a display screen that
would display 24 characters.
But they were 16-segment
characters, not just
the seven segment
that we normally
think of in pocket calculators.
You could do alphanumerics.
You could also do graphics.
And then it had some
input/output on the back.
It had a little bit of RAM.
In those days, RAM was about
$71 for a kilobyte, two chips.
It had some read-only memory.
And in that read-only
memory, we had
two chips that had an operating
system for the device in it.
So when you fired
it up, it came up.
And then it told it, oh,
you're a little computer,
and you'll do these things.
And the keyboard will work
this way, and the display,
and the printer, and
the input/output.
It was designed
specifically to teach people
how to use this
particular processor chip
and the input/output chips
that went with it were designed
was it in the same family.
>>DAVID: And what was
the processor chip?
>> PETERSON: It was a 6502.
That became the basis for the
Commodore PET, the Apple II,
the Commodore 64, the Atari.
The first thing, I
think, that was done
was by one of the
first students.
>>DAVID: Let's get back
to Hal Chamberlin now.
You're working
with these AIM-65--
>> PETERSON: Well, we brought
him in, because they took that
knowledge.
And they made from it a
very powerful computer.
It was at least 10,000
times more powerful
than the computer we used
on the Gemini capsule.
>>DAVID: Really?
>> PETERSON: And it
would do everything.
>>DAVID: And this, I assume,
must have been classified?
>> PETERSON: No, it
wasn't classified at all.
>>DAVID: Oh.
>> PETERSON: It happened
by a private company out
in the-- a couple
of bright guys.
One of them was Hal Chamberlin.
And David Love was his partner.
>>DAVID: Well, was it
ever publicly released?
>> PETERSON: Oh, yeah.
The public bought
them by the thousands.
>>DAVID: OK.
So it was just a very
significant advancement
in computer power,
you're saying?
>> PETERSON: Yeah, it was, like,
the second computer that ever
had a keyboard and
a processor chip.
>>DAVID: Right.
So what was Hal
Chamberlin's role
was you when you started
to train with him?
>> PETERSON: Well, Hal
was David's partner.
So what we got from
David, we got from Hal.
They were partners.
And one of the things--
Hal said, well, I have
a little board here
that will allow us to
do any kind of sound.
And he was just finishing up
his book on computerized sound.
And so he's the guy.
As far as I know, the
book is still used.
>>DAVID: So that would be,
like, the first sound card
for any computer.
>> PETERSON: The first
sound card of any kind--
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: --that I know of.
But if there was another one, it
was 200 levels of intelligence
below that.
>>DAVID: So Hal Chamberlin
helped you to implement
a sound card in your computer?
>> PETERSON: Hal Chamberlin
took our needs and designed his
sound card and their computer--
that's his company's computer--
around our needs.
And then I built a
whole entire line
of computerized
diagnostic equipment
that totally altered the world
and the ability to do that.
>>DAVID: So we have time
for one more name-dropping.
Could you give us
another name of someone
who you got into contact with as
a result of these assignments?
>> PETERSON: Well, there are
a lot of Nobel Prize winners.
But probably one
of them that people
would know about,
especially in the world
that we are marketing to-- and
that would be Rupert Sheldrake.
>>DAVID: Oh, yeah, of course.
>> PETERSON: He's a very,
very brilliant biologist from
Cambridge, I believe.
And we hired him to come over
in lecture to a group of doctors
who used my medical equipment.
So when he came
over, it wasn't that
I was trying to impress him.
It's that I knew a lot of
things about what he had found
and wanted to try to give
him some information.
So he thought he was supposed
to come over and teach us
what he'd found.
I knew what he'd found.
And the rest of them didn't.
So to be fair with them, we
let him talk about his thing.
And I quit talking
about my thing.
>>DAVID: Well, let
me just state, Pete,
that we actually-- this is
pretty amazing, because I
interviewed Rupert Sheldrake.
And we've aired some of
those interview clips
on this network.
And what he's done
in terms of showing
a biological
intelligence field that
seems to interconnect
seemingly separate life forms
is quite amazing.
>> PETERSON: Yup, it is.
And there's a whole
lot more to it.
And he looks at it
as a geneticist.
And if you look at it
more as a scientist,
from a physics standpoint,
there's so much more.
>>DAVID: I'm sure.
>> PETERSON: As would be normal.
And I've done tons and tons of
work on morphogenetic fields.
And they are, indeed, very
well-named-- morphogenetic.
They've morphed
from various things
that the universe itself is
learning on a regular basis.
And so the universe
will change itself
based on preponderance
of thought.
And that's what my PhD thesis
is on, on thought, rather
than looking at everything
from a physical standpoint.
Spirituality is a
different way to put it.
And there are fields out there.
The problem is that
there aren't any words
in the English language
that will describe reality.
The words we have describe very
gross, very personal, "we do it
every day" kind of things,
like burning eggs and stuff
like that.
So we need a whole
new series of words
for the next step of mankind.
>>DAVID: I agree.
>> PETERSON: And a lot of those
include a lot of words that we
had in the past.
The word has been bastardized
from what it really was.
But there are words
that talk about what
we would clump in
a spiritual class.
And the human has
a core or a spirit.
I mean, there aren't words
to talk about it exactly.
There are words to talk about
it exactly for part of it
and not at all for
other parts of it.
But they're there.
And they used to be there.
We've bastardized the words.
>>DAVID: But what specifically
was Sheldrake doing at the time
that you met him?
What was it that he gave you?
>> PETERSON: Well, what he had
just done is discovered what
the early fundaments of
the morphogenetic field.
>>DAVID: Do you
remember specifically
what was the data at the time?
>> PETERSON: Well, the data was
that animals could evidently
gather data from
some other means.
A lot of animals, for
example, dogs, cats--
I have a cat that
does it perfectly.
I have a cat that I live
about 70 miles from.
And I go up.
And he likes it where he is.
And it's in the wilderness.
And so I go up and visit
him every eight or 10 days,
and have water fountains,
and food fountains,
and stuff like that for him,
and robots that feed him,
and take care of him, and tell
me if that's not happening.
And he and I can
talk back and forth
on a computer screen
via the internet.
And so I go up to see him.
And when I decide, oh, good,
I've got some time today
and tomorrow, I'm going
to drive up there,
immediately, I can measure his
heart rate, his breathing rate,
where he moves from where
he sleeps to where we sleep.
And I can see that
all take place.
He knows it long beforehand.
And he gets very excited
when I get 10 miles away
and more excited when I'm
coming up the driveway.
>>DAVID: So you have
an electronic way
to measure your
cat's vital signs.
And you can see his response as
you're deciding to go up there.
>> PETERSON: Right.
>>DAVID: Well, that's a
much more advanced form
of what Sheldrake did.
He has actually a
book called "Dogs
Who Know Their Owners
are Coming Home,"
where he found that people
who came home at random times
that the dog would
preferentially stay right
by the front door
waiting for them--
>> PETERSON: Exactly.
>>DAVID: --whenever
they're about to show up.
>> PETERSON: Oh, he's right
inside the front door.
I have to knock it
open a little bit
so I don't run over his toes.
[LAUGHTER]
>>DAVID: So how did Sheldrake's
work influence you at the time
when you heard this?
>> PETERSON: Well, I started out
that I wanted to just tell him
the things I'd found out in
his area that obviously in his
writing he wasn't putting
there for some reason,
either he didn't know about it,
or he'd been kind of quieted
by the agencies that
were interested.
I had a lot of agencies
that were interested.
And they told me things
that I can talk about
and can't talk
about, which is going
to be a limiting factor here.
>>DAVID: Yes, for sure.
>> PETERSON: And there are
things that they're doing
totally unbeknownst to me.
There's things they'll doing,
some parts known to me.
And I see things coming out
that I taught them 20 years ago
and they finally believe.
Like the show that we
were on seven years ago--
a lot of people writing in
what they thought that I said,
and where I was right,
or whether I was wrong,
or whether I was indifferent,
or didn't see this.
There are bright people
out in the world.
But they had no idea
what the background was.
So they let their mouth
override their intellect.
But anyway, there were a lot of
things that I learned from him.
But the biggest thing
that I learned from him
is how and why he got
into what he was doing.
I said, where did this guy
come up with this knowledge?
Because it took me a long
time and a lot of research
to come up with it.
So I found out about
the fact that he was--
he'd gotten there.
He was a bit of a misanthrope.
He didn't have any friends,
and he didn't have any people
that he knew very
well, and he didn't
know any girls, and
et cetera, et cetera.
So his counselor
there at Cambridge
said, I want you to go
down to this hallway
that's got a bulletin board
with all the lists of the
after school extracurricular
clubs and things like that.
I want you to pick a
group, and join it.
So he went down and looked.
And he's a very bright boy.
And they were all
kind of dull to him.
And finally, he
found this group that
had Bertrand Russell
and David Bowen.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: These
are all world, world,
world-famous scientists.
And he said, oh, that sounds
like an interesting group.
Well, he hadn't been there.
This was his freshman year.
He didn't know that there
was a pecking order.
And these are people you didn't
dare go talk to without making
a two-year appointment, and
having something to show them,
and something to--
you know?
And so he just went in,
and joined the club.
Well, everybody in the
club thought, well,
nobody's going to
be so supercilious
as just to come walk into
our club without an invite.
So they all thought, somebody
here invited this guy here.
>>DAVID: Well, since we're
just about out of time,
did Sheldrake end up
impressing these guys?
Just can you briefly
fill us in on that?
>> PETERSON: Well,
Sheldrake's very bright.
And he's very different.
He doesn't understand
social things--
or didn't then and
probably not so much now.
But one thing was, he
realized when he got in there,
that he was in the wrong
spot and that these guys were
talking way over his head.
And like I was at
that age, I realized
that I was talking over
everybody else's head.
And he realized that in
his particular field and me
in my particular field.
>>DAVID: So how did that lead to
him doing something different?
>> PETERSON: So what did he
do-- is he just closed his mouth
and listened, mostly.
>>DAVID: I see.
>> PETERSON: And very soon,
he was up to speed with some
of them.
And very soon, he was
contributing to the comments.
So what he had was 25 or 30
absolutely brilliant mentors
that didn't know they were
being mentors particularly.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>> PETERSON: But he had
these brilliant mentors.
And they were like I
am, in a general field,
rather than in his
specific field.
>>DAVID: Cool.
>> PETERSON: So he learned a
lot of things that were very
helpful to him in his field from
things that they were finding
out in their scientific field.
>>DAVID: All right, well,
that's all the time we have
for in this episode--
some really,
really fascinating stuff--
getting the whole
back-story here.
Thank you for watching, and
we'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]